In the video on the module JDK in this section,
I showed a module graph for the java.se module.
In this video, we're gonna talk about module graphs
for the modules we've created in this section of the course.
So we're gonna start with org.module.global.
So we'll open a terminal session in the IntelliJ.
We're gonna use the out/production folder or directory,
so starting from there, and basically you go
to whatever output directory that you put your projects
in there if they're not the same as mine.
I'm gonna start by jdeps dash v
org.module.global,
and I'm gonna make a bit more space here
because we're not gonna be doing any code in this video.
So that can be able alternatively written as jdeps
dash verbose
org.module.global.
Same output as you can see.
So you can see there
that the output using this verbose option,
and obviously both of those'll do the same thing,
will display dependencies down to the class level,
and that could easily become way too much information.
So if I do something like jdeps dash v
dash m for java.sql,
we got a lot of classes there showing.
So you can see if I scroll up, heaps of 'em.
There's a summary option for jdep,
so jdep dash s org.module.global
or jdeps dash summary org.module.global,
which does the same thing.
So note that unlike some of the other alternative options,
you saw that dash v has the alternate dash verbose
and not dash dash verbose,
and here also you can see dash s has the alternative
dash summary and not dash dash summary.
So keep that in mind.
So the summary here is actually a textual representation
of the module graph.
As you can see, we've got org module global,
we've got an arrow pointing to java.base.
So that's actually quite an easy graph.
I'm gonna swing over the slides
and show that in a graph format.
So you can interpret a module graph by the way the arrow,
called the read edge, is directing you.
So in this case, the graph says pictorially
org.module.global reads java.base.
All right so let's expand our view
and include org.module.util.
So we got to type jdeps dash summary
org.module.global
space org.module.util,
and you can see we get the output from both modules there.
Now in case you forgot what our descriptors looked like,
we can run these commands,
so java dash dash module
dash path. dash dash describe
dash module
org.module.global.
Now the same thing for org.module.util
as you can see.
So we can see that although there was a directive requires
org.module.global transitive,
the summary listing of jdeps did not show
org.module.global as a dependency of org.module.util.
All right let's go over the slides,
and I've drawn up the module graph
for these two modules, and shown there as you can see.
So org.module.util reads java.base,
and org.module.global also reads java.base,
and note that org.module.util does
not read org.module.global.
The read edges correspond to the number of elements listed
in the jdeps dash s listing.
All right so let's expand the graph,
jdeps dash summary
org.module.global
space org.module.util
space org.module.base.
Now you can see the output showing there.
So our graph will get more complicated now
because we've got five read edges.
So here's what it looks like on-screen.
Note that we've got five arrows,
which represent our read edges,
org.module.base has a dependency on org.module.global
although it's not specified in the directive file.
This was created by the requires transient directive
in org.module.util.
Let's try this one more time,
and we'll just add the last one, the last module,
to the end there, org.module.concrete.
There's the output.
Let's swing over and check out the graph.
This is the full module graph as you can see there.
So the exam may have a question
about the module graph, but will probably be restricted
to two or three modules.
Read the descriptors carefully,
looking for qualified exports and transitive dependencies.
These actually reduce the dependencies.
The java.base module is an implicit dependency
for every module.
If you see a module graph with any module
that does not read java.base,
it's not an accurate graph,
and if you see a module graph with a node
that is a package, that is not a valid module graph.
All right so moving on next,
you'll see a few quiz questions,
and then we'll head into the conclusion for the course.